---
layout: post
title: "Sirmione, the Florida of Europe"
author: Tim Best
---

We decided to add Sirmione in to our trip due to a recommendation from Katherine's co professor and our friends Cory and Bennet. We are so glad we did! Driving in to the town gave us both the feeling of Florida. Something about the beeches, sea side motels with pools, and boulevard streets packed with beech goers. 


On our way katherine looked up the letters on EU license plates and we made a game of figuring  out what countries all the cars and truckers were from. Since we had plenty of lisence plate practice on the 2:30 hour drive over we quickly picked up the Sirmione was full of german motorists/touroist

When we arived we quickly unpacked our car and got settled into our hotel room before walking to the Spa we had reseravtions at. As we walked the street got narrower and narrower until we needed to cross a small water way in front of a Castel. Yes a real Castel. With a moat! Then we had to pass many shops and street full of people to get to the spa.

The Spa was amazing! The water is naturally warmed by the earth [photo of warter warming] and had beautiful views of the lake (name of lake here?). MY favorite part was a 10 lap meditation circut. You first went up a few step and took a short walk in the naturaly warmed water about waist high. At the other end there is no exit and you must go back in waist high water the is cold. It was deeply relaxing and quite fun to share the cold waater shock with othe guests. Turns out that translates well between greman, italian and english.

A close second was the saunas where you through a number of rooms of varying heat and humidity with sented mists and showers between

After the Spa we head to our last dinner in italy and had an amazing raw seafood plater, prefectly cooked mussels in an asparagas sause and something else. The restraunt was on a dock and the ducks and fish were quite accostomed to getting food from the patrons. We enjoyed watching all of them circle around our table below. They also seemd to know small humans are more likely to give food as they congragated below the family next to use. 

Overall Sirminoe was a wonderful send off from italy. Cho! 

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/images/2022-06-09-sirmione" %}
