---
layout: post
title: "Flight home"
author:
  - Timothy Best
---

July 21 22:33

With less then 30 minutes left until our driver picks us up for the airport, I am sitting here with Paka on my lap playing with her to keep her awake. Hoping to tucker her out so she can sleep on the first leg of our 26 hour door to door transit from lina CT appartments dar es salaam Tanzania to Southminster drive white plains ny.

I am looking forward to getting home. To eatting food that doesn't turn my stomach into a Knott. I am also incredibly anxious and nervous. I am generally anxious before a flight but the unknowns work Paka are making our even worse. What if we don't have the right documents. Will we be able to get get out of Tanzania. Will we be able to get her on Turkish airlines? Will she make it through customs in NY? So much is up on the air and we are gambling her life on our preparedness with out her consent. In addition to the legal obstacles. How will she handle the nearly 30 hours stuck in her crate. How will we feed her, play with her keep her calm 

Last night we got to spend 2 hours with Nathan having a very stimulating conversation about life, Tanzania culture and history, etc. He is such a nice kid and has added so much to our experience here. Tonight Libby stopped by to say good by and brought us the red fruit that is put on Simba forehead in the lion king. An incredibly kind gesture that has helped add a connection to Tanzanian culture that we have been longing for.

At 11:45 we brought our bags down. Thankfully our driver was early and awaiting us out side the gate. We loaded up our bags and headed to the airport. On the way e got to see dar es salaam for the first time at night. I enjoyiseeimg the lights on the tanzinite bridge, peering into bars to see the patrons there for a thursty Tuesday, restraint employees cleaning up.after a long day, and street food vendors still actively serving folks. The city had frewrr people out but was still very much alive. Leaving I am sad that we didn't get to experience some night life and street food. But I .sure my stomach thanks me. We also passed under the new railroad bridge. Our driver told us about how the new line is cheaper then the bus and takes half the time. Making the previous 4 hour jurney take only 2 hours. Paka is thankfully very tired and quickly played down for a nap. Even while going over the largest bumps and most uneven roads..she didn't stir or make as much as a squeak.

Arriving at the airport we had to go through security right at the door. They were amused by the cat and ended up having us unpack her travel bag in order to ensure that the kitty litter was okay. The kitty litter then had to separatly be run through the x-ray. In line to check in every other customer was very interested in our cat. Including some curious children. The attendent had to make copies of our documents. Something there website, office, and phone line failed to inform us. Then we had to go through passport control. We asked the agent about exporting of the cat and he just shurged. After that we had to go through security again. The agents were equally entertained with Paka and equally alarmed by the kitty litter. At the airport we ended up locking ourselves in a handicap toilet with Paka so she could sleep on Katherine's lap. I write this from the bath room on July 22nd at 1:58. A few minutes later two maintenance works tried to unlock the door. They waited a while and then knocked. After opening the door the barged in to dry a passport with a hand dryer and then left. It was a very strange interaction

5:25 we are awoken for breakfast. The water came in the same plastic container as apple sauce. During take off we fed Paka dry kibble 3 at a time so that she could pop her ears. During this she scratch and bit just as she does when she is food crazy. After we reached altitude she cryed a little for more food but then decided to go to sleep. Again barley a whimper 

13:19 I write this just after we boarded our flight to JFK. Paka was a trooper on the flight. We were able to feed her on serving of wet food. I purposely made it mostly liquid and less tuna because of all the kibble she gets during take off and landing. During the landing I was giving her kibble and having her eat out of my hand. As concequence I ended up getting bit in my middle finger and had a lot of blood. When we got to the airport we had thought our 3 hour layover would leave us board and playing with Paka in a family bathroom. Instead it was just enough time to get through all the security and to our gate. Since the boarding process was so time consuming we were thankfully able to grab some souvenirs and clean up Paka's litter