---
layout: post
title: "Hanoi & Vietnam's National Day"
author:
  - Timothy Best
---

Continuing with the getting out of Cambodia problems. We waited to buy our flight until we had our Vietnam visa in hand. So once we got our visa we ended up paying more than we would have liked for a flight. However, when we got to the airport the attendant wouldn't honor our tickets because the payment was still pending on our card. After much negotiation, we ended up having to pay even more for tickets 2 hours before the departure. We were left with a bad taste in our mouths and vowed to never fly Cambodia airways again. 

When we landed in Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam, we found out that our connection flight we reserved also had not been booked correctly. Thankfully Vietnam Airlines' customer support was amazing. The check-in attendant stayed by our side through the entire process. Even walking us over to another counter and then ensuring that we got the plane for the same price we booked it at. And even though economy was booked they upgraded us to business class for no extra cost.
In business class, we got talking to a couple from the US who worked for the world bank and had just gotten assigned to work in Hanoi. We ended up exchanging numbers with them and later got Bun Cha at [Bun Cha Huong Lien](https://www.facebook.com/bunchahuonglienobama/) where Obama and Anthony Bourdain ate.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/images/2022-08-30-hanoi/bun-cha" %}

We arrived at Hanoi in the dark and completely exhausted from the day of travel we both dropped our bags and immediately collapsed in the bed for a night's sleep. The next morning we awoke to a beautiful view of the city. We had booked a private room with a balcony at a hostel. From the balcony, we could observe all the action on the street from a calm and peaceful vantage point. 

We then headed off to meet our guide for a walking tour of Hanoi. Everyone else who had booked the morning tour spoke Spanish as their main language the guides broke the groups up by language and we ended up getting a private tour. The guide hit on many of the sites that we had planned to go to and many that we didn't.

Our first stop was

- walking tour
  - temple
  - soft shell turtle
  - budists hand fruit
  - latern street
  - food markets
  - clothing whole sale
  - sugar cane juice
- restraunt down the alley
- date on the balcony
- food tour
- womans museum
- National day
  - ho chi min plaza
  - botanical garden
  - tofu street vendor
  - chat outside convience store
  - ban mi 