---
layout: post
title: "Siem Reap"
author:
  - Timothy Best
---

## Kulan Elephant forest

I tend to be skeptical of the ethics of any animals in captivity and espicially ones involving large mamals. I also love animals and interacting with them brings me tremendous joy. It fills me with wonder and excitment about the world.

When researching siem reap I had come across [the kulan elephant sanctuary](https://www.kulenforest.asia/). It was a tourist attraction that advertised saving elephants form tourism. Which seemed like a contradiciton. Sceptically I added it to the list of "maybe" activites.

One our first day at Angkor Wat we ended up chatting with a lovely women working at an NGO in the area. We had a wonderful conversation learning that she came here on holiday and ended up living here for years. While in camobodia on the holiday she learned about a greatn for folks to help out with a special needs school and took the job. She told us mush of what it was like before and after COVID. In pre COVID times there use to be elephants at the Angkor Wat temple. They would offer rides to tourists no matter the time of day or weather conditions. Sadly, this lead to a death of one of the elephants in 2019. This in combination with the pandemic provided the right opertuninty for a wealthy donor to purchase the animals and "retire" them to a sanctuary. After getting the back story and having someone how has lived in the area for a while vouch that the organization seemed ethical. We moved it to our "must do" list. And I am glad we did.

The experiance was wonderful and it seemed like they were doing the best to care for the animals. We started the day by taking a bus 40km north to the forest where we got to feed the elephants some treats (bananas and sugar cain), went on a short 3km hike and then came back to watch them bath and feed them some king grass (A hard to cultivate grass that is one of their favorites). 

I was humbled and intimidated by there presence. They are huge animals! The guides explained to us the dos and donts which all seemed like basic resptecful behavior. Such as: don't pull on their tails. let the elephant approch you. If they back away from you let them. Don't take away food after offering it to them. 

At one point another visitor approhed me and said I had elephant face. Refering to my ear to ear smile. Additionally the tour guide was super knowlegeable and we learned lots about asian elephants. including:

- They are smaller and browner then their african counter parts
- While capable of longer lives they often die around 45 years old due to starvation. Their mollars wear out and then they can't get enough soft food in the dry season. To combat this the sanctuary makes massive disshes of banana and rice for their older elephants to help them through the dry season
- Elephants care cappable of recognizing them selfs in the mirror
- Fit ones can swim up to 1km
- They can hold this breath for over two minutes
- Are capable of covering 40km in a single hour
- An elephants gestation period is 21-23 months
- At the sanctuary they are trying to breed the elephants and have found that if the females are not attracted to the males they will go hide in the woods and the animals won't breed

## Apopo

Apopo was on my must do in Siem reap list. They are an organization that uses blind rats to sniff out and find landmines! The tour was heart breaking and very educational. They are doing great work. I find it so heart breaking that we have layed so many land mines across the globe. They are horrible weapons often designed to mame and not kill. Most of which also end up effecting people that have no connection or interest in the conflict. There is also something very dishartening that they are made by the wealthyest contries for an incredible cheap price and it is left to deveoploing to pay 10-30x the manufacturing cost to remove them. A huge tax that delays human prosperity and causes so much hurt.

We also learned that the land mine sniffing rats are breed and trained in Tanzania. An unexpected connection to our previous travels! The rats are incrdible smart and clever. While they can not be demesticated they are traine to sniff out TNT and scratch the ground in the location of the smell. This makes them advetagous to metal detector as they can ignore scrap metal and are light enogh to not set off the mine. Currently the ~60 rats have a perfect tract record of finding all mines in the swept area. A fact that is verified by a second rat, a metal detector and then a seperate indepenant check by the cambodian govenrment. 

## Phare Circus



## Flower in your hair

## Food
- coconuts
- lok lak
- amok
- passion fruit smmoties


## other
- cheap food, tuk tuks and drinks
- strangler figs and the CDC
- trash cans, bottle gas stations, LEDs, cloth towels 
